About the job

Locations: München | Berlin | Frankfurt | Hamburg | Köln | Düsseldorf | Stuttgart | Vienna

Who We Are

Boston Consulting Group partners with leaders in business and society to tackle their most important challenges and capture their greatest opportunities. BCG was the pioneer in business strategy when it was founded in 1963. Today, we help clients with total transformation-inspiring complex change, enabling organizations to grow, building competitive advantage, and driving bottom-line impact.

To succeed, organizations must blend digital and human capabilities. Our diverse, global teams bring deep industry and functional expertise and a range of perspectives to spark change. BCG delivers solutions through leading-edge management consulting along with technology and design, corporate and digital ventures—and business purpose. We work in a uniquely collaborative model across the firm and throughout all levels of the client organization, generating results that allow our clients to thrive.

We Are BCG X

We’re a diverse team of more than 3,000 tech experts united by a drive to make a difference. Working across industries and disciplines, we combine our experience and expertise to tackle the biggest challenges faced by society today. We go beyond what was once thought possible, creating new and innovative solutions to the world’s most complex problems. Leveraging BCG’s global network and partnerships with leading organizations, BCG X provides a stable ecosystem for talent to build game-changing businesses, products, and services from the ground up, all while growing their career. Together, we strive to create solutions that will positively impact the lives of millions.

What You'll Do

Our BCG X teams own the full analytics value-chain end to end: framing new business challenges, designing innovative algorithms, implementing, and deploying scalable solutions, and enabling colleagues and clients to fully embrace AI. Our product offerings span from fully custom-builds to industry specific leading edge AI software solutions.

As a (Senior) Forward Deployed AI Scientist – Operations & Optimization, you will apply advanced analytics, machine learning, optimization, and simulation techniques to solve complex operational challenges across industries. Working as part of diverse, multidisciplinary teams—including BCG consultants, Operations experts, AI engineers, and client teams—you will jointly design, build, and deploy AI-driven solutions that deliver measurable business impact. Success in this role requires close collaboration with stakeholders across functions and organizations, combining deep technical expertise with operational knowledge to improve performance, increase resilience, reduce costs, and enable lasting transformation.

What You'll Bring

We Are Looking For Dedicated Individuals With a Passion For Data Science, Statistics, Operations Research And Redefining Organizations Into AI Led Innovative Companies. Successful Candidates Possess The Following

    Experience applying data science, machine learning, optimization, or simulation techniques to solve complex business problems
    Strong understanding of modern analytics and machine learning methods, with the ability to translate insights into business impact
    Knowledge of Operations & Optimization methodologies and experience solving operational challenges in areas such as supply chain, manufacturing, logistics, inventory management, or workforce planning
    Strong programming skills in Python; experience with optimization tools (e.g., Gurobi, OR-Tools, Pyomo) is a plus
    Ability to communicate complex analytical concepts clearly and effectively to technical and non-technical audiences
    Comfortable in client-facing environments, working collaboratively in diverse teams, and managing multiple stakeholders
    Master's degree or PhD in Operations Research, Industrial Engineering, Applied Mathematics, Computer Science, Statistics, Data Science, Engineering, Economics, or a related quantitative field - please provide all academic certificates (A-level, Bachelor, Master, PhD)
    Excellent oral and written communication skills in both German and English (C1/C2)

Technologies

Programming Languages: Python

#BCGXjob

Additional info

Professional Development

We are committed to your growth. You will have ample opportunities to participate in training programs, workshops, and development initiatives. You will also benefit from coaching and mentoring to further enhance your skills and expertise. At BCG, you can explore new horizons and expand your potential.

Join the Group

Are you ready to take the next step in your career? Apply now and become part of a community of forward-thinkers. Here, challenges and collaboration go hand in hand, your ideas are valued, and your potential knows no bounds. Let’s work together to develop innovative solutions and create a lasting impact on businesses and society.

Boston Consulting Group is an Equal Opportunity Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, age, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity / expression, national origin, disability, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected under national, provincial, or local law, where applicable, and those with criminal histories will be considered in a manner consistent with applicable state and local laws.

BCG is an E - Verify Employer. Click here  for more information on E-Verify.